[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Let's
go back to our read me.
We've handled steps one and
two and three of task one.
Step four says there's nothing else.
So we're now complete with task one.
Is there a way to exit
the modal without using it?
Now we don't have a way to exit it yet,
we're gonna come back to that
later in our exercise today.
Right now, the modal once a pops up,
it stays there until we refresh the page.
So, we'll fix that later.
So, task one, little overwhelming
perhaps but It really did start to show
some practical application of the concepts
that we were just foo barring earlier.
So, I hope that answered some
questions that people had earlier.
We'll be looking at more of
those practical applications,
that's the goal here, this part of
the workshop is all about doing practical
application of the concepts from earlier.
So let's turn our
attention now to task two.
It says we need to open up carousel.js and
details.js, and so
I want you to go ahead and do those.
I'm gonna close out a few of these
files that I don't need for right now,
like I don't need the style CSS,
let's close header for
now we don't even need that one,
well come back to it.
Let's open up.
>> Kyle Simpson: Carousel and
details.
>> Kyle Simpson: And hopefully it will be
clear fairly quickly that I've
done a lot of the work already.
[LAUGH] I didn't want you to have
to figure out all the math for
how to do a left and
right, scroll or whatever.
If you wanna try your hand at it and
challenge yourself you can delete
my code and try it but
I've already provided you the math for
how to do a scroll left and
scroll right for a carousel.
I've already set up all the stuff,
at the very bottom here it says,
you wanna attach click handlers for
the left, a dollar
sign left is the left button and the
dollars sign right is the right button.
So you just want attach click handlers to
them, and have those click handlers call
the scroll left and the scroll right
functions that I've already written.
So that's just two lines of code,
that's going to be much
much more straight forward.
The details one has slightly more work but
not a lot.
And we'll come back to that.
So let's look at the read me,
what does it tell us to do first?
The first item number two here it says,
in carousel.js add those event handlers
for the left and right carousels.
I'm gonna do the first one for you.
And then it'll be really easy for
you to figure out the second one, okay?
So I have a dollar sign left element and
I have a scroll left function.
And I wanna put those two
together as a click handler.
So all that's left down here at
the bottom, I'll take out those comments,
to set up the left one,
I just say dollar sign
left on click and give it a call back.
What's my call back?
>> Speaker 2: Scroll Left.
>> Kyle Simpson: Scroll left.
Right, that's it.
So super difficult task for you,
[LAUGH] do the one for scroll right.
And that should look like dollar sign
right dot on click scroll right.
Okay, save that file.
Let's refresh our page.
Let's see what kind of magic
we now have access to.
>> Speaker 3: I'm no where near that fast
at typing.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay, sorry about that.
>> Speaker 5: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 6: I'm sorry,
did you pull all that out of
the solution and then paste it?
>> Kyle Simpson: No, no, no,
this is the starting version of this file,
the only two lines that I had to write
here were these two lines.
>> Speaker 6: I have only two lines
in mine [CROSSTALK]
never mind.
[LAUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah,
there's a question in the chat room.
The callback goes without parentheses.
Exactly, if we put parentheses
here what would happen?
It would call scroll left immediately and
the return value from that is what would
get bound which isn't a function so
that wouldn't help.
So yeah,
we definitely just pass it by name.
Okay, so now if we refresh the page, but
now I have a silly, but working carousel.
>> Kyle Simpson: By the way just as
a little side note, I did have a slight
amount of math as you can see here
like figuring out to add plus and
minus 250 in position but
you notice I'm not doing any work for
animations, though when we run it,
it is smoothly animated.
The way I achieved that, CSS animations.
So if you look at the CSS stylesheet,
sorry CSS transition.
If you look at the CSS stylesheet,
it's so cool how easy this is.
On the CSS stylesheet the items element
is the one that's moving around and
I just put a transition on it which
says when I change the left property
instead of it happening immediately
I want it to take half a second.
And this last parameter here is for
easing so
that it looks a little smoother
as it eases out and moves in.
So one line of CSS instead of invoking
some crazy JavaScript animation library.
And it provided a nice
little smooth movement for
us.
>> Kyle Simpson: Like I said,
that's the most proud I can be of CSS,
cuz that's about all I know.
That's about the sum total
of my CSS knowledge.
[COUGH] Okay, so carousel.
It's only 41 lines of code.
We don't need complex plugins to do simple
little tasks like what we're showing here.
There are tens of thousands of great
plugins out there in the J Query world
from everything that you can imagine.
Calendar widgets, there's about 100,000
different carousel plugins that you
can get and they're all much much more
complex with lots of extra features.
I just prefer to approach everything that
I do from the most basic and simple and
then work my way up.
Instead of going and grabbing the most
complex crazy thing that I can and
dropping it in, and
having to learn a whole crazy new API.
It really just boils down to,
do I know how to do adding and
subtracting of the number 250?
That was about it.
>> Speaker 7: They're asking where that
250 came from.
>> Kyle Simpson: Trial and error.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 8: 250 pixels.
>> Kyle Simpson: My little icons are 200
pixels wide and
I have a 50 pixel padding in between them.
So that's it.
[LAUGH]